Let's uh discuss now all these
developments with Hassan barari
professor of international Affairs at
qat University here in Doha good to have
you with us again uh Hassan on aler
let's start with this pressure coming
from all sides on on Israel to increase
Aid into Gaza for accountability of the
killing of the world Central Kitchen
staffers we've had this letter from
congressional Democrats uh who are
calling for uh a suspension of Aid uh of
military aid transfer to Israel also in
the UK growing calls for uh the
suspension of arm sales to Israel do you
think this pressure is genuine and and
will these Western countries actually
change their policy towards Israel if uh
Israel doesn't change the conduct its
conduct on the ground in Gaza oh well
thanks F I think it is genuine pressure
these days and given what Israel has
been doing but at the same time we have
to remember that the International
Community has been complicit with all
these Israeli massacres and genocide war
against the gazan uh so by actually
keep uh keep repeating the manra that
Israel has the right to selfdefense
Israel has been killing everyone
including those workers so I mean those
workers actually are are the the victims
of the kind of the International
Community complicit with Israeli
policies this is one point second one uh
there's a change in in American scene
these days uh you know when Nazi poosi
sign this letter uh she's not like left
leaning U politicians in the Democratic
party which mean that probably uh uh the
whole political party is Democratic
party is moving a little bit into uh
adopting this position so it has become
a a mainstream position it's not only
left leaning uh uh groups in in the
party so uh Mr Biden needs to take this
into account simply because he's going
to election in in a few months to come
uh and another another development is
the International Community now is
saying out loud that they don't trust
whatever Nan is going to do so all these
investigation they prop into the uh into
the accident will not be taken seriously
as lacking credibility and
transparency uh so they know that
Netanyahu is not listening to to anyone
particularly the American you know they
tell him you know you need to do this
and you need to do that you need to have
to take care you need to take care of
the humanitarian crisis uh and he's he's
just not listening he's continue uh he
continues doing what is it going to take
you think to to make him listen I think
what they wrote in the letter is very
important that if they condition uh
supplying Israel with weapons munition
and uh with with its behavior in the
Battleground I think this is the only
thing that would probably push Nan to uh
uh to change course H NATO understand
only the cost benefit and formula uh so
if he hears all people criticizing him
and no one is uh uh placing a price tag
in his policies he he will not he will
not change yeah we have also uh today
the CIA director William Burns uh
reportedly heading back to Cairo along
with the heads of mosad and shinb uh
negotiators from Qatar uh Egypt to
engage in another round of of ceasefire
talks uh do you see any movement on that
front with everything that's happened
this week do you think it'll put more
pressure on both sides not just the
Israelis but also Hamas because we've
heard Biden say that uh Hamas also needs
to uh agree to the terms of the
ceasefire is there more urgency now for
for this to happen I think I think so I
think I mean the first impression I
would say same all same all because
every time they meet they talk about you
know changing position but they continue
business as usual and then at the end of
the day they don't sign a deal uh uh now
there is an international pressure in
particular from the United States on
both Sid as you said correctly uh he
asked the mediators the Egyptians and
the qataris to put a lot of pressures in
Hamas and he himself he talked to and he
said there should be a need for
ceasefire in order to allow for
humanitarian Aid so the whole conflict
now has become into a humanitarian
crisis that everyone wants to solve yeah
regardless of what Israel is talking
about it's right to self defense and and
the need to dismantle Hamas and they
need to release the hostages no one is
talking about these things now everyone
everyone sees Gaz as on the brink of of
a real real catastrophe yeah and
everyone is also concerned about another
front opening up with the fears that
Iran will retaliate uh after the strike
on its Consulate in Damascus earlier the
week fears in Israel itself which has
raised its alert level um the Iranians
until now have manage to distance
themselves from this conflict how do you
think they might respond because they
have to respond right how what will be
the extent of the response well both
both sides have been into a kind of a
war between Wars I mean they targeting
each other they using Proxes I mean the
Iranians have been using andah in order
to harass Israel and in order to annoy
Israel they've been doing this even
before October 7th I mean with hasah h
the question here is that this is the
first time that the Israelis attack a
directly an Iranian uh I would say
diplomatic premises and the Iranian
leaders understand that they need to
retaliate because if they fail to do
that and this will POS a different
questions for them they will have hard
time to answer internally uh I really
can't predict what they're going to do
but if there should be an Iranian
retaliation maybe it takes uh the proess
to do something but this will not
satisfy the Iranian the the public and I
think in this time they will look for a
target maybe they will uh uh Target
Israel inside Israel okay Hassan always
get good to get your analysis on the
situation uh in Gaza and elsewhere thank
you very much Hassan barari professor of
international relations at Qatar
University